Hey welcome back to Booster
incoming Bootstrap to WordPress.
Now that you've installed WordPress live,
you need to get that theme in there.
So let me show you how to do that.
Come on in.
[MUSIC]
So how do we add our own custom
theme to our live WordPress site?
Well, normally you'd be in appearance and
themes, and then you'd find a theme or
you'd buy a premium theme, and
then you'd install it here.
But what you could do is you can go to the
directory of your theme that you coded so
here in my finder I have.
B2W WordPress content themes.
Bootstrap to WordPress.
And then compress that file,
or that folder.
So this is the package for
your theme right here in the zip file.
And then you're going to want to here
in your dashboard add a new theme.
Choose file or drag and
drop that zip file right here.
And then hit Install Now and
that will install your theme
into the directory that
you can choose from.
And then go ahead and hit Activate.
Now we're not quite done here
because we're gonna be missing a lot
as you will see.
So here I've activated our
bootstrap to WordPress theme, but
if I were to go check this out live,
let's just see.
There's a lot of wonky looking stuff here,
and
this can be discouraging if you don't
know how to solve this problem.
So it takes a little bit of configuration,
and that's why this lecture is called
Install and Configure your WordPress
Theme, cuz we're not quite done yet.
What we're gonna do now is go to
php.myadmin on our local machine.
So here, local host 8888, MAMP.
And I need to go to tools, php.myadmin,
and then find my Bootstrap
to WordPress database.
Right here, and up here,
you'll see a tab called export.
I need to export this entire database,
so click custom.
Make sure all of these
tables are selected.
Save output to a file.
Format as sql.
All these are fine, and
then go ahead, hit go.
That will download an SQL file.
Now go back to your control panel.
And then go into PHP my admin.
Make sure in here that you open up
the Database that was created for
your WordPress site and if you use the
auto installer then it's going to create
a generic or tail name like Word 7 or
Word 6, or Word 425, things like that.
You need to make sure to
find the correct table.
The easiest way to find
the proper database
is to go to your WordPress
config file in your live site.
So login by FDP.
It's easy if you're using Coda and
open up your WordPress config.
You can see the database name right here.
So for me 1683.
Here we go, 1683.
And we're given a bunch
of default tables when
the WordPress, install wizard installed
everything, but we don't want
any of this because it's not the correct
tables that we're using for our site.
So check all and drop the entire thing.
Hit Yes.
And now you should have an empty site.
Great.
Really all we used the install wizard for
was to quickly install the Wordpress
core files, and then we can go through
the install process ourself manually,
because the core files is what takes the
longest to install when uploading via ftp.
So go back to your code editor in
Wordpressconfig.php, the live site, and
scroll down in the Stable_prefix,
change it to the Stable_ prefix that
you used in your local version.
So, for me it was dbbs_.
And go ahead and save that.
And now, hit import.
And import the SQL file that you
downloaded from your local site.
And then hit go.
And now we should have all of
the correct database tables.
However, there's still a few
settings we need to change.
Go back to the live site here.
And try logging in, see what happens.
You're redirected to your
local host port 8888.
Wonder why that is.
Well that's because in your database
it saved the information about where
the WordPress install was hosted,
and that was your local host 8888.
So go back to your database.
So what you need to do now is change
the information in the database that
anything that says 'local host 8888,'
you need to change to your new URL.
And that sounds daunting, and it can
be depending on the size of your site,
because you have multiple instances
of that address in your tables,
and so you can do something and
you could search for, for
example, localhost port 8888.
Inside all the tables and then hit go.
It'll let you know how
many instances there are.
And so here there's 96, and this one five,
and then two, and that's it.
So basically, you got A little over
a 100 incidences in these three tables.
Now you can do a pretty quick search and
replace if you have MySQL knowledge.
Or you can go to a tool called
search replace db on GitHub.
So github.com
interconnectit/search-replace-DB.
And it's a php search replace tool quickly
modifying string throughout a database.
Used for changing the base URL and
migrating the WordPress site
from development to production.
Exactly what we're doing.
So why don't you go ahead and download
this, and so what you need to do here is
upload the script to your web root as so
the same as the WP can fig,
and then browse to it in
the in your browser and
then fill in the fields and
hit go so lets try it out together.
So I'm gonna download this.
So here we go.
We have the search replace DV master.
I'm gonna upload that to my
root on my WordPress site here.
And now that's installed I'm gonna go to
my browser and navigate to Bootstrap to
Wordpress.com/searchreplaceDVmaster
Localhost port 8888 and
replace with
http://bootstraptowordpress.com.
And we're gonna check all tables and
you could choose dry run just to
double check to see if it works.
So you could see here how
many cells will be changed.
And what you could do
now is do a live run.
And now that we're all done,
we don't need this script anymore so
make sure to remove it.
Or you could delete it right here.
Now we're gonna go back to our log in
screen and see if we're redirected.
And we're not, so that's a good sign.
I'm going to log in here.
And here we go, I'm logged in.
But we're still not done yet.
Because we don't have all the plug ins,
and
information that we had in our local site.
So let's just double check
that everything is here.
At least the default pages are here.
So we got the pages.
And I think we should have some posts.
Yup.
Okay so we're on the right track but
our site still looks like
this with no information, so
the first thing you need to do is make
sure you have all the correct plugins
because we've used advanced custom fields,
contact form seven, custom post type UI.
Those are very important so we need to get
these plugins and make sure they are live.
What you can just do,
is go straight to your FTP.
From your local site, grab the plugins.
So advance custom fields.
Custom conduct form seven.
Custom post tag UI.
Then make sure to upload them
in the WordPress content.
Plugins, there we go.
You can go ahead and
just upload those folders.
Let those upload.
They might take a few minutes
depending on the size.
It might take a little while.
And now once those plugins have been
installed and activated you should have
access to everything that
you did in your local site.
Theoretically everything should be there.
However, from experience, I already know,
right from the get-go,
that your media library will not be there.
And that's pretty important.
As you can see right here,
these are all broken references.
All you gotta do is make sure in your
local site in the WordPress content
folder uploads,
make sure to upload the content of
uploads to your live site right in here.
So I'm just gonna go ahead and
upload uploads to my live site.
That should take a few minutes and
once that's done,
we're gonna double check our media library
to make sure we have everything in there.
And here we go in the media library,
everything's been uploaded.
I refreshed, looks good, and
if I go to the live site just to
double check everything's working.
Here we got our hom page.
Everything looks like it's good to go.
Check out the Resources page,
Resources, they're good to go.
Blog, we should have our blog posts,
excellent.
And then the contact page, awesome.
Let's just check the 404,
boom there it is.
And modal windows should pop up for
us, great.
All right, so that's it.
You did it, you uploaded your
Custom WordPress theme live to your
own domain and that's amazing.
That's a huge deal.
It's a big task and it's a lot of work and
it's a little stressful at first but
the more you do it
the better you'll get at it.
And my challenge to you is actually to go
back a couple lectures, remove everything
you've just done, delete it from your live
server, remove the WordPress installation,
and start over from scratch and get your
local version onto your live server.
Try that a couple times because the more
you do it, the better you'll get at it.
For me, it's like a piece of cake because
I've done this upwards of 100, 200 times.
So no problem, and you can do the same.
So the more you do it, more practice,
the easier this will be.
And that's also a good thing when
it transfers over to Client work.
When you're doing a website launch,
you don't wanna get yourself caught
with your pants down around your ankles.
You gotta do this right.
And you gotta do it efficiently.
And you gotta deliver on time so
that your client isn't being stressed
that their website isn't gonna be alive
in time for their launch party or
whatever it is they're doing.
So one good way of keeping your client
happy is to make sure that you launch that
website efficiently on time and
without any hesitations or problems.
So I'm going to jump into another module
here with just a few more lectures.
And it's just fun.
Nothing hardcore.
Just to give you a few more details and
information to help extend your
WordPress site and
just give you a bit more information.
So I'll see you there.
[MUSIC].